---
layout: post
title: Fly on the Wall Lab 
subtitle: Collect Empirical, Observational Data
tags: [labs]
comments: true
---

# Summary of My Observations

The first part of this lab was conducted during the two weeks of online classes. In HM Online 2.0, the environment and objects were mostly set, and people and interactions were the more significant features. The environments for HM Online 2.0 were students’ and teachers’ homes and Zoom App. Users were students and teachers. I consider Zoom App to be an environment, not an object, because it was the medium of the vast majority of interactions. Laptop, desktop, and other devices, internet connections and family members make up the objects, since they had the potential to interfere with the activities of students and teachers. For example, some of my teachers have young kids at home. Sometimes, class had to be stopped because of the noise in the background. This happened twice in the three chemistry classes online. Internet connections and devices also had an impact on online school life. I recorded many occasions of students dropping out of Zoom, then joining back because of wi-fi issues. When I was doing remote learning, my steel drum teacher’s laptop died in the middle of the class when he was passionately playing with the band. He never noticed. There was also confusion and awkwardness in general when school was online, along with lots of repeating sentences. I recorded five occasions of myself leaving Zoom too slow, making the teacher think that I had questions, and then, just as the teacher would ask me if I had any questions, I would leave Zoom and then be unable to join back, since the teacher had closed the room. I had to email teachers several times to explain what had happened.

HM in-person, on the other hand, is a whole different experience even though users were still students and teachers. I was on campus for the first day in seven months when I did my data collection during class. Because of COVID-19, the school made big adjustments for our safety. I was able to make observations on the change in environment and objects. I recorded multiple times that when I walked on the main field, the majority of tents were not being used as classrooms. Up until this point, I have not seen a person in the lower gym (I thought it was converted to a study hall). This different environment of course leads to different interactions. On the main field, there were students playing soccer, or having PE classes not far away from other students sitting in circles, eating and talking. There were always lines in front of the pizza station. I also recorded at least five occasions when the teacher asked me to speak louder because I am not used to speaking through a face mask. 

# Analysis of My Observations

I categorized all my observations based on the AEIOU worksheet.  AEIOU is the abbreviation for activity, environment, interaction, object, and users. For HM Online 2.0, I found most of my observations to be activities and interactions driven by a sudden change in the environment or the object. For the environment and object, it was very difficult to solve with a mobile app. On the one hand, the technology of creating a virtual meeting without internet or device does not exist. On the other hand, it would cost way too much money for any institution or organization to provide every student with a good and stable connection as well as a functioning device. If new technologies such as 3D projecting (like the holograms in sci-fi movies) were mature and cheap enough, they could perhaps solve the “focus” issue I found in the activity and the interaction category. In my opinion, HM has done a good job of distributing iPad and laptops to students that do not have one and Zoom is probably the best medium for virtual meetings as of now. However, it is difficult for a single mobile app to solve all these issues. 

HM in-person has more room to work with, although actions interactions between staff members and students or between students are limited due to the COVID-19 regulations. The environment and objects around the users could be better used. Many of my observations can be categorized as the underuse of shared spaces. I can totally see how an app that keeps tracks of the shared spaces, such as tents, can boost the use by teachers or as a reference for students who want to find a place to eat lunch. 

# My Reflection

In this lab, I started making small observations (on Zoom and in-person). Specifically, I paid close attention to unusual observations, because observations such as students discussing sports or politics happen everywhere. Then I grouped my observations using the AEIOU worksheet, because the worksheet has such a complete system. After assigning all my observations into the five categories, I looked into each category specifically to look for patterns. In terms of who I worked with, I worked by myself. I followed the directions you proposed in class and used the hard copy of the AEIOU worksheet. If we had another day to observe school in-person, I would have more observations that might lead to more interesting findings. In this lab, I learned how to make empirical and observational data, and analyze them to yield results. I also practiced my skill in writing websites using Markdown. 
